ports-base release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-archivers release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-benchmarks release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-audio release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-cad release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-comms release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-databases release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-devel release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-editors release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-emulators release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-games release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-graphics release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-japanese release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-lang release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-mail release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-math release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-misc release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-net release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-news release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-plan9 release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-print release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-russian release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old
ports-security release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-shells release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-sysutils release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-www release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
ports-x11 release=current host=SUP.FreeBSD.ORG hostbase=/home base=/usr prefix=/usr/ports delete old 
