
Problems compiling Kerberos
===========================

Many compilers require a switch to become ANSI compliant. Since krb4 is
written in ANSI C it is necessary to specify the name of the compiler
to be used and the required switch to make it ANSI compliant. This is
most easily done when running configure using the `env' command. For
instance to build under HP-UX using the native compiler do:

     datan$ env CC="cc -Ae" ./configure

In general `gcc' works. The following combinations have also been
verified to successfully compile the distribution:

`HP-UX'
     `cc -Ae'

`Digital UNIX'
     `cc -std1'

`AIX'
     `xlc'

`Solaris 2.x'
     `cc' (unbundled one)

`IRIX'
     `cc'

Linux problems
--------------

The libc functions gethostby*() under RedHat4.2 can sometimes cause
core dumps. If you experience these problems make sure that the file
`/etc/nsswitch.conf' contains a hosts entry no more complex than the
line

hosts: files dns

Some systems have lost `/usr/include/ndbm.h' which is necessary to
build krb4 correctly. There is a `ndbm.h.Linux' right next to the
source distribution.

There has been reports of non-working `libdb' on some Linux
distributions.  If that happens, use the `--without-berkeley-db' when
configuring.

HP-UX problems
--------------

The shared library `/usr/lib/libndbm.sl' doesn't exist on all systems.
To make problems even worse, there is never an archive version for
static linking either. Therefore, when building "truly portable"
binaries first install GNU gdbm or Berkeley DB, and make sure that you
are linking against that library.

Cray problems
-------------

`rlogind' won't work on Crays until `forkpty()' has been ported, in the
mean time use `telnetd'.

AIX problems
------------

`gcc' version 2.7.2.* has a bug which makes it miscompile
`appl/telnet/telnetd/sys_term.c' (and possibily `appl/bsd/forkpty.c'),
if used with too much optimization.

Some versions of the `xlc' preprocessor doesn't recognise the
(undocumented) `-qnolm' option. If this option is passed to the
preprocessor (like via the configuration file `/etc/ibmcxx.cfg',
configure will fail.

The solution is to remove this option from the configuration file,
either globally, or for just the preprocessor:

     $ cp /etc/ibmcxx.cfg /tmp
     $ed /tmp/ibmcxx.cfg
     8328
     /nolm
             options   = -D_AIX,-D_AIX32,-D_AIX41,-D_AIX43,-D_IBMR2,-D_POWER,-bpT:0x10000000,-bpD:0x20000000,-qnolm
     s/,-qnolm//p
             options   = -D_AIX,-D_AIX32,-D_AIX41,-D_AIX43,-D_IBMR2,-D_POWER,-bpT:0x10000000,-bpD:0x20000000
     w
     8321
     q
     $ env CC=xlc CPP="xlc -E -F/tmp/ibmcxx.cfg" configure

There is a bug in AFS 3.4 version 5.38 for AIX 4.3 that causes the
kernel to panic in some cases. There is a hack for this in `login', but
other programs could be affected also. This seems to be fixed in
version 5.55.

C2 problems
-----------

The programs that checks passwords works with `passwd', OTP, and
Kerberos paswords. This is problem if you use C2 security (or use some
other password database), that normally keeps passwords in some obscure
place. If you want to use Kerberos with C2 security you will have to
think about what kind of changes are necessary. See also the discussion
about Digital's SIA and C2 security, see *Note Digital SIA::.


