OpenBSM 1.0

  Introduction

OpenBSM provides an open source implementation of Sun's BSM Audit API. 
Originally created under contract to Apple Computer by McAfee Research, 
this implementation is now maintained by volunteers and the generous 
contribution of several organizations.  Coupled with a kernel audit 
implementation, OpenBSM can be used to maintain system audit streams, and 
is a foundation for an Audit-enabled system.

  Contents

OpenBSM consists of several directories:

    bin/           Audit-related command line tools
    bsm/           System include files for BSM
    etc/           Sample /etc/security configuration files
    libbsm/        Implementation of BSM library interfaces and man pages
    man/           System call and configuration file man pages

OpenBSM currently builds on FreeBSD and Darwin.  With Makefile adjustment
and minor tweaks, it should build without problems on a broad range of
POSIX-like systems.

  Building

OpenBSM is currently built using a series of BSD make files which should 
work on both FreeBSD and Darwin.  One known issue is that versions of 
Darwin prior to 10.3.8 have a nested include of "sys/audit.h" from 
"sys/proc.h", which can result in type definition conflicts.  If running 
with include files from an earlier version of Darwin, the nested include 
must be manually removed in order that libbsm can be built, due to 
potentially conflicting types resulting from an include of "sys/sysctl.h" 
by that file.  On Darwin, the use of BSD make must be specified explicitly 
by using "bsdmake" rather than "make", which on Darwin refers to GNU make.  
Typical invocations from the OpenBSM tree root:

FreeBSD

    % make
    # make install

Darwin

    % bsdmake
    # bsdmake install

  Credits

The following organizations and individuals have contributed substantially 
to the development of OpenBSM:

    Apple Computer, Inc.
    McAfee Research, McAfee, Inc.
    SPARTA, Inc.
    Robert Watson
    Wayne Salamon
    Suresh Krishnaswamy
    Kevin Van Vechten
    Tom Rhodes
    Wojciech Koszek
    Chunyang Yuan
    Poul-Henning Kamp
    Christian Brueffer
    Olivier Houchard

In addition, Coverity, Inc.'s Prevent(tm) static analysis tool and Gimpel
Software's FlexeLint tool were used to identify a number of bugs in the
OpenBSM implementation.

  Contributions

The TrustedBSD Project would appreciate the contribution of bug fixes, 
enhancements, etc, under identically or substantially similar licenses to 
those present on the remainder of the OpenBSM source code.

  Location

Information on OpenBSM may be found on the OpenBSM home page:

    http://www.OpenBSM.org/

Information on TrustedBSD may be found on the TrustedBSD home page:

    http://www.TrustedBSD.org/

$P4: //depot/projects/trustedbsd/openbsm/README#13 $
