aicasm				optional	ahc	device-driver	   \
	dependency 	"$S/dev/aic7xxx/*.[chyl]"			   \
	compile-with	"make -f $S/dev/aic7xxx/Makefile MAKESRCPATH=$S/dev/aic7xxx" \
	no-obj no-implicit-rule						   \
	clean		"aicasm"
#
# The long compile-with and dependency lines are required because of
# limitations in config: backslash-newline doesn't work in strings, and
# dependency lines other than the first are silently ignored.
#
aic7xxx_{seq,reg}.h		optional	ahc	device-driver	   \
	compile-with	"./aicasm ${INCLUDES} -o aic7xxx_seq.h -r aic7xxx_reg.h $S/dev/aic7xxx/aic7xxx.seq"   \
	no-obj no-implicit-rule before-depend				   \
	clean		"aic7xxx_seq.h aic7xxx_reg.h"			   \
	dependency	"$S/dev/aic7xxx/aic7xxx.{reg,seq} $S/scsi/scsi_message.h aicasm"
cfs/cfs_namecache.c	optional vcfs
cfs/cfs_nbsd.c		optional vcfs
cfs/cfs_fbsd.c		optional vcfs
cfs/cfs_psdev.c		optional vcfs
cfs/cfs_subr.c		optional vcfs
cfs/cfs_venus.c		optional vcfs
cfs/cfs_vfsops.c	optional vcfs
cfs/cfs_vnodeops.c	optional vcfs
ddb/db_access.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_aout.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_break.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_command.c	optional ddb
ddb/db_examine.c	optional ddb
ddb/db_expr.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_input.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_lex.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_output.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_print.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_ps.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_run.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_sym.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_trap.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_variables.c	optional ddb
ddb/db_watch.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_write_cmd.c	optional ddb
dev/ccd/ccd.c		optional ccd device-driver
dev/dpt/dpt_control.c	optional	dpt device-driver
dev/dpt/dpt_scsi.c		optional	dpt	device-driver
dev/en/midway.c		optional en device-driver
dev/pdq/pdq.c		optional fea device-driver
dev/pdq/pdq_ifsubr.c	optional fea device-driver
dev/pdq/pdq.c		optional fpa device-driver
dev/pdq/pdq_ifsubr.c	optional fpa device-driver
dev/ppbus/nlpt.c	optional nlpt
dev/ppbus/ppb_base.c	optional ppbus
dev/ppbus/ppb_1284.c	optional ppbus
dev/ppbus/ppbconf.c	optional ppbus
dev/ppbus/ppi.c		optional ppi
dev/ppbus/pps.c		optional pps
dev/ppbus/vpo.c		optional vpo
dev/vn/vn.c		optional vn
dev/vx/if_vx.c		optional vx  device-driver
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_alloc.c		optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_balloc.c	optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_inode.c		optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_inode_cnv.c	optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_linux_balloc.c	optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_linux_ialloc.c	optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_lookup.c	optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_subr.c		optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_vfsops.c	optional ext2fs
gnu/ext2fs/ext2_vnops.c		optional ext2fs
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_bmap.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_lookup.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_node.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_rrip.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_util.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_vfsops.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_vnops.c	optional cd9660
kern/imgact_aout.c	standard
kern/imgact_elf.c	standard
kern/imgact_gzip.c	optional gzip
kern/imgact_shell.c	standard
kern/inflate.c		optional gzip
kern/init_main.c	standard
kern/init_sysent.c	standard
kern/init_sysvec.c	standard
kern/kern_intr.c	standard
kern/kern_module.c	standard
kern/kern_linker.c	standard
kern/link_aout.c	standard
kern/kern_acct.c	standard
kern/kern_clock.c	standard
kern/kern_conf.c	standard
kern/kern_descrip.c	standard
kern/kern_exec.c	standard
kern/kern_exit.c	standard
kern/kern_fork.c	standard
kern/kern_ktrace.c	standard
kern/kern_lkm.c		standard
kern/kern_lock.c	standard
kern/kern_lockf.c	standard
kern/kern_malloc.c	standard
kern/kern_mib.c		standard
kern/kern_ntptime.c	standard
kern/kern_opt.c		standard
kern/kern_physio.c	standard
kern/kern_proc.c	standard
kern/kern_prot.c	standard
kern/kern_resource.c	standard
kern/kern_shutdown.c	standard
kern/kern_sig.c		standard
kern/kern_subr.c	standard
kern/kern_synch.c	standard
kern/kern_sysctl.c	standard
kern/kern_time.c	standard
kern/kern_timeout.c	standard
kern/kern_xxx.c		standard
kern/md5c.c		standard
kern/subr_diskslice.c	standard
kern/subr_autoconf.c	standard
kern/subr_dkbad.c	standard
kern/subr_log.c		standard
kern/subr_prf.c		standard
kern/subr_prof.c	standard
kern/subr_rlist.c	standard
kern/subr_xxx.c		standard
kern/sys_generic.c	standard
kern/sys_pipe.c		standard
kern/sys_process.c	standard
kern/sys_socket.c	standard
kern/sysv_ipc.c		standard
kern/sysv_msg.c		optional sysvmsg
kern/sysv_sem.c		optional sysvsem
kern/sysv_shm.c		optional sysvshm
kern/tty.c		standard
kern/tty_compat.c	standard
kern/tty_conf.c		standard
kern/tty_pty.c		optional pty
kern/tty_snoop.c	optional snp
kern/tty_subr.c		standard
kern/tty_tb.c		optional tb
kern/tty_tty.c		standard
kern/uipc_domain.c	standard
kern/uipc_mbuf.c	standard
kern/uipc_proto.c	standard
kern/uipc_socket.c	standard
kern/uipc_socket2.c	standard
kern/uipc_syscalls.c	standard
kern/uipc_usrreq.c	standard
kern/vfs_bio.c		standard
kern/vfs_cache.c	standard
kern/vfs_cluster.c	standard
kern/vfs_conf.c		standard
kern/vfs_default.c	standard
kern/vfs_init.c		standard
kern/vfs_lookup.c	standard
kern/vfs_subr.c		standard
kern/vfs_syscalls.c	standard
kern/vfs_vnops.c	standard
kern/kern_threads.c	standard
kern/vfs_aio.c		standard
miscfs/deadfs/dead_vnops.c	standard
miscfs/devfs/devfs_tree.c	optional devfs
miscfs/devfs/devfs_vfsops.c	optional devfs
miscfs/devfs/devfs_vnops.c	optional devfs
miscfs/fdesc/fdesc_vfsops.c	optional fdesc
miscfs/fdesc/fdesc_vnops.c	optional fdesc
miscfs/fifofs/fifo_vnops.c	standard
miscfs/kernfs/kernfs_vfsops.c	optional kernfs
miscfs/kernfs/kernfs_vnops.c	optional kernfs
miscfs/nullfs/null_subr.c	optional nullfs
miscfs/nullfs/null_vfsops.c	optional nullfs
miscfs/nullfs/null_vnops.c	optional nullfs
miscfs/portal/portal_vfsops.c	optional portal
miscfs/portal/portal_vnops.c	optional portal
miscfs/procfs/procfs_ctl.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_fpregs.c	standard
miscfs/procfs/procfs_map.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_mem.c	standard
miscfs/procfs/procfs_note.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_regs.c	standard
miscfs/procfs/procfs_status.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_subr.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_type.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_vfsops.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_vnops.c	optional procfs
miscfs/specfs/spec_vnops.c	standard
miscfs/umapfs/umap_subr.c	optional umapfs
miscfs/umapfs/umap_vfsops.c	optional umapfs
miscfs/umapfs/umap_vnops.c	optional umapfs
miscfs/union/union_subr.c	optional union
miscfs/union/union_vfsops.c	optional union
miscfs/union/union_vnops.c	optional union
msdosfs/msdosfs_conv.c		optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_denode.c	optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_fat.c		optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_lookup.c	optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_vfsops.c	optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_vnops.c		optional msdosfs
net/bpf.c		optional bpfilter
net/bpf_filter.c	optional bpfilter
net/bsd_comp.c		optional ppp_bsdcomp
#net/hostcache.c		standard
net/if.c		standard
net/if_atmsubr.c	optional atm
net/if_disc.c		optional disc
net/if_ethersubr.c	optional ether
net/if_fddisubr.c	optional fddi
net/if_loop.c		optional loop
net/if_media.c		standard
net/if_mib.c		standard
net/if_ppp.c		optional ppp
net/if_sl.c		optional sl
net/if_spppsubr.c	optional sppp
net/if_tun.c		optional tun
net/if_vlan.c		optional vlan
net/ppp_deflate.c	optional ppp_deflate
net/ppp_tty.c		optional ppp
net/radix.c		standard
net/raw_cb.c		standard
net/raw_usrreq.c	standard
net/route.c		standard
net/rtsock.c		standard
net/slcompress.c	optional ppp
net/slcompress.c	optional sl
net/zlib.c		optional ppp_deflate
netatalk/aarp.c		optional netatalk
netatalk/at_control.c	optional netatalk
netatalk/at_proto.c	optional netatalk
netatalk/at_rmx.c	optional netatalkdebug
netatalk/ddp_input.c	optional netatalk
netatalk/ddp_output.c	optional netatalk
netatalk/ddp_usrreq.c	optional netatalk
#netccitt/ccitt_proto.c	optional ccitt
#netccitt/hd_debug.c	optional hdlc
#netccitt/hd_input.c	optional hdlc
#netccitt/hd_output.c	optional hdlc
#netccitt/hd_subr.c	optional hdlc
#netccitt/hd_timer.c	optional hdlc
#netccitt/if_x25subr.c	optional ccitt
#netccitt/llc_input.c	optional llc
#netccitt/llc_output.c	optional llc
#netccitt/llc_subr.c	optional llc
#netccitt/llc_timer.c	optional llc
#netccitt/pk_acct.c	optional ccitt
#netccitt/pk_debug.c	optional ccitt
#netccitt/pk_input.c	optional ccitt
#netccitt/pk_llcsubr.c	optional hdlc
#netccitt/pk_llcsubr.c	optional llc
#netccitt/pk_output.c	optional ccitt
#netccitt/pk_subr.c	optional ccitt
#netccitt/pk_timer.c	optional ccitt
#netccitt/pk_usrreq.c	optional ccitt
#netimp/if_imp.c		optional imp
#netimp/if_imphost.c	optional imp
#netimp/raw_imp.c	optional imp
netinet/fil.c		optional ipfilter inet
netinet/if_atm.c	optional atm
netinet/if_ether.c	optional ether
netinet/igmp.c		optional inet
netinet/in.c		optional inet
#netinet/in_hostcache.c	optional inet
netinet/in_pcb.c	optional inet
netinet/in_proto.c	optional inet
netinet/in_rmx.c	optional inet
netinet/ip_auth.c	optional ipfilter inet
netinet/ip_divert.c	optional ipdivert
netinet/ip_fil.c	optional ipfilter inet
netinet/ip_frag.c	optional ipfilter inet
netinet/ip_fw.c		optional ipfirewall
netinet/ip_icmp.c	optional inet
netinet/ip_input.c	optional inet
netinet/ip_log.c	optional ipfilter inet
netinet/ip_mroute.c	optional inet
netinet/ip_nat.c	optional ipfilter inet
netinet/ip_output.c	optional inet
netinet/ip_proxy.c	optional ipfilter inet
netinet/ip_state.c	optional ipfilter inet
netinet/mlf_ipl.c	optional ipfilter inet
netinet/raw_ip.c	optional inet
netinet/tcp_debug.c	optional tcpdebug
netinet/tcp_input.c	optional inet
netinet/tcp_output.c	optional inet
netinet/tcp_subr.c	optional inet
netinet/tcp_timer.c	optional inet
netinet/tcp_usrreq.c	optional inet
netinet/udp_usrreq.c	optional inet
netipx/ipx.c		optional ipx
netipx/ipx_cksum.c	optional ipx
netipx/ipx_input.c	optional ipx
netipx/ipx_ip.c		optional ipx
netipx/ipx_outputfl.c	optional ipx
netipx/ipx_pcb.c	optional ipx
netipx/ipx_proto.c	optional ipx
netipx/ipx_tun.c	optional ipx
netipx/ipx_usrreq.c	optional ipx
netipx/spx_debug.c	optional ipx
netipx/spx_usrreq.c	optional ipx
#netiso/clnp_debug.c	optional iso
#netiso/clnp_er.c	optional iso
#netiso/clnp_frag.c	optional iso
#netiso/clnp_input.c	optional iso
#netiso/clnp_options.c	optional iso
#netiso/clnp_output.c	optional iso
#netiso/clnp_raw.c	optional iso
#netiso/clnp_subr.c	optional iso
#netiso/clnp_timer.c	optional iso
#netiso/cltp_usrreq.c	optional iso
#netiso/esis.c		optional iso
#netiso/idrp_usrreq.c	optional iso
#netiso/if_eon.c		optional eon
#netiso/iso.c		optional iso
#netiso/iso_chksum.c	optional iso
#netiso/iso_pcb.c	optional iso
#netiso/iso_proto.c	optional iso
#netiso/iso_snpac.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_astring.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_astring.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_cons.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_driver.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_driver.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_emit.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_emit.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_inet.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_inet.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_input.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_input.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_iso.c		optional iso
#netiso/tp_meas.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_meas.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_output.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_output.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_pcb.c		optional iso
#netiso/tp_pcb.c		optional tpip
#netiso/tp_subr.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_subr.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_subr2.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_subr2.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_timer.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_timer.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_trace.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_trace.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tp_usrreq.c	optional iso
#netiso/tp_usrreq.c	optional tpip
#netiso/tuba_subr.c	optional iso tuba
#netiso/tuba_table.c	optional iso tuba
#netiso/tuba_usrreq.c	optional iso tuba
netkey/key.c		optional key
netkey/key_debug.c	optional key_debug
netnatm/natm.c		optional natm
netnatm/natm_pcb.c	optional natm
netnatm/natm_proto.c	optional natm
#netns/idp_usrreq.c	optional ns
#netns/ns.c		optional ns
#netns/ns_error.c	optional ns
#netns/ns_input.c	optional ns
#netns/ns_ip.c		optional ns
#netns/ns_output.c	optional ns
#netns/ns_pcb.c		optional ns
#netns/ns_proto.c	optional ns
#netns/spp_debug.c	optional ns
#netns/spp_usrreq.c	optional ns
nfs/nfs_bio.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_node.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_nqlease.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_serv.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_socket.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_srvcache.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_subs.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_syscalls.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_vfsops.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_vnops.c		optional nfs
nfs/bootp_subr.c	optional bootp
nfs/krpc_subr.c		optional bootp
pccard/pccard.c		optional card
pccard/pccard_beep.c	optional card
pccard/pcic.c		optional pcic device-driver
pci/pcic_p.c		optional pcic device-driver
pci/aic7870.c		optional ahc device-driver			\
	dependency	"aic7xxx_reg.h $S/pci/aic7870.c"
pci/brooktree848.c	optional bktr device-driver
pci/bt9xx.c		optional bt device-driver
pci/dpt_pci.c		optional pci dpt device-driver
pci/cy_pci.c		optional cy device-driver
pci/if_de.c		optional de device-driver
pci/if_ed_p.c		optional ed device-driver
pci/if_en_pci.c		optional en device-driver
pci/if_fxp.c		optional fxp device-driver
pci/if_lnc_p.c		optional lnc device-driver
pci/if_fpa.c		optional fpa device-driver
pci/if_sr_p.c		optional sr device-driver
pci/if_tx.c		optional tx device-driver
pci/if_vx_pci.c		optional vx device-driver
pci/meteor.c		optional meteor device-driver
pci/ncr.c		optional ncr device-driver
pci/pci.c		optional pci device-driver
pci/pci_compat.c	optional pci
pci/pcisupport.c	optional pci
pci/tek390.c		optional amd device-driver
pci/wdc_p.c		optional wdc device-driver
posix4/posix4_mib.c	standard
posix4/p1003_1b.c	standard
posix4/ksched.c	optional _kposix_priority_scheduling
scsi/cd.c		optional cd
scsi/ch.c		optional ch
scsi/od.c		optional od
scsi/pt.c		optional pt
scsi/scsi_base.c	optional scbus
scsi/scsi_driver.c	optional scbus
scsi/scsi_ioctl.c	optional scbus
scsi/scsi_sense.c	optional scbus
scsi/scsiconf.c		optional scbus
scsi/sctarg.c		optional sctarg
scsi/sd.c		optional sd
scsi/ssc.c		optional ssc
scsi/st.c		optional st
scsi/su.c		optional su
scsi/uk.c		optional scbus
scsi/worm.c		optional worm
ufs/ffs/ffs_alloc.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_alloc.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_balloc.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_balloc.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_inode.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_inode.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_softdep_stub.c	standard
ufs/ffs/ffs_softdep.c	optional softupdates
ufs/ffs/ffs_subr.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_subr.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_tables.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_tables.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_vfsops.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_vfsops.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_vnops.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_vnops.c	optional mfs
ufs/ifs/ifs_isyscalls.c	optional vcfs
ufs/ifs/ifs_subr.c	optional vcfs
ufs/mfs/mfs_vfsops.c	optional mfs
ufs/mfs/mfs_vnops.c	optional mfs
ufs/ufs/ufs_bmap.c	standard
ufs/ufs/ufs_disksubr.c	standard
ufs/ufs/ufs_ihash.c	standard
ufs/ufs/ufs_inode.c	standard
ufs/ufs/ufs_lookup.c	standard
ufs/ufs/ufs_quota.c	standard
ufs/ufs/ufs_vfsops.c	standard
ufs/ufs/ufs_vnops.c	standard
vm/default_pager.c	standard
vm/device_pager.c	standard
vm/swap_pager.c		standard
vm/vm_fault.c		standard
vm/vm_glue.c		standard
vm/vm_init.c		standard
vm/vm_kern.c		standard
vm/vm_map.c		standard
vm/vm_meter.c		standard
vm/vm_mmap.c		standard
vm/vm_object.c		standard
vm/vm_page.c		standard
vm/vm_pageout.c		standard
vm/vm_pager.c		standard
vm/vm_swap.c		standard
vm/vm_unix.c		standard
vm/vnode_pager.c	standard
vm/vm_zone.c		standard
